README.rst, before:

shale
=====

A Flask-backed REST API to manage Selenium sessions.

.. pypi - Everything below this line goes into the description for PyPI.


Progress
--------

Right now, all the service does is manage metadata on Selenium usage.
Integrating with AWS to auto-scale hubs and nodes, as well as keep-alive pings
and other supervision, are being developed.

Running
-------

Clone the repo and install the requirements

.. code:: sh

    git clone git@github.com:cardforcoin/shale.git
    pip install -r requirements.txt

In development, you can run the Flask dev server.

.. code:: sh

    python wsgi.py

In production, use gunicorn.

.. code:: sh

    gunicorn -b 127.0.0.1:5000 wsgi:app -t 120 --log-file -

Examples
--------

curl
~~~~

.. code::

    $ curl -d '{"browser_name":"phantomjs"}' -XPOST \
           http://localhost:5000/sessions/ \
           --header "Content-Type:application/json"
    {
      "id": "05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db",
      "reserved": false,
      "hub": "localhost:4444",
      "browser_name": "phantomjs",
      "tags": []
    }

List all the active sessions

.. code::

    $ curl http://localhost:5000/sessions/
    [{
      "id": "05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db",
      "reserved": "False",
      "hub": "localhost:4444",
      "browser_name": "phantomjs",
      "tags": []
    }]

Create a new reserved session with tags

.. code::

    $ curl -d '{"browser_name":"phantomjs", "tags":["walmart"], "reserved":true}' \
           -XPOST http://localhost:5000/sessions/ \
           --header "Content-Type:application/json"
    {
      "id": "05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db",
      "reserved": false,
      "hub": "localhost:4444",
      "browser_name": "phantomjs",
      "tags": ["walmart"],
      "reserved": true
    }

Unreserve a session and add a tag

.. code::

    $ curl -d '{"tags":["walmart", "logged-in"], "reserved":false}' \
           -XPUT http://localhost:5000/sessions/05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db \
           --header "Content-Type:application/json"
    {
      "id": "05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db",
      "reserved": "True",
      "hub": "localhost:4444",
      "browser_name": "phantomjs",
      "tags": ["walmart", "logged-in"]
    }

Delete a session. Note that this will de-allocate the Selenium driver.

.. code::

    $ curl -XDELETE http://localhost:5000/sessions/05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db
    true

python
------

Get a client

.. code:: python

    >>> import shale.client
    >>> client = shale.client
    >>> # or, use a custom client
    >>> client = shale.client.Client('http://my-shale-host:5000')

List all running webdrivers.

.. code:: python

    >>> client.running_browsers()
    ({u'browser_name': u'phantomjs',
      u'hub': u'localhost:4444',
      u'id': u'31027408-3e45-4d27-9770-ba1a26953dfc',
      u'reserved': True,
      u'tags': [u'target', u'linux']},)

Reserve a webdriver.

.. code:: python

    >>> browser = client.reserve_browser('31027408-3e45-4d27-9770-ba1a26953dfc')
    <shale.client.ClientResumableRemote at 0x1d92fd0>

... and release it.

.. code:: python

    >>> browser.release()

There's a handy context manager for reserving & releasing webdrivers.

.. code:: python

    >>> with client.browser(id) as browser:
    ...     # do yo thang
    ...     pass

Finally, if there's not a good candidate running, you can create and reserve
a new remote webdriver.

.. code:: python

    >>> browser = client.create_browser(reserve=True)

Commit message:

Added a configurable hub pool.
Closes #5- integrating with, eg, AWS will be left as an exercise for the
user.

README.rst, after:

shale
=====

A Flask-backed REST API to manage Selenium sessions.

.. pypi - Everything below this line goes into the description for PyPI.


Progress
--------

Right now, all the service does is manage metadata on Selenium usage.
Integrating with AWS to auto-scale hubs and nodes, as well as keep-alive pings
and other supervision, are being developed.

Running
-------

Clone the repo and install the requirements

.. code:: sh

    git clone git@github.com:cardforcoin/shale.git
    pip install -r requirements.txt

In development, you can run the Flask dev server.

.. code:: sh

    python wsgi.py

In production, use gunicorn.

.. code:: sh

    gunicorn -b 127.0.0.1:5000 wsgi:app -t 120 --log-file -

Configuration
-------------

To provide a configuration module, include a  variable `SHALE_SETTINGS` in your
environment. Current options include the basic config provided by Flask, as well
as a configurable `HUB_POOL` for dynamic hub selection.

Examples
--------

curl
~~~~

.. code::

    $ curl -d '{"browser_name":"phantomjs"}' -XPOST \
           http://localhost:5000/sessions/ \
           --header "Content-Type:application/json"
    {
      "id": "05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db",
      "reserved": false,
      "hub": "localhost:4444",
      "browser_name": "phantomjs",
      "tags": []
    }

List all the active sessions

.. code::

    $ curl http://localhost:5000/sessions/
    [{
      "id": "05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db",
      "reserved": "False",
      "hub": "localhost:4444",
      "browser_name": "phantomjs",
      "tags": []
    }]

Create a new reserved session with tags

.. code::

    $ curl -d '{"browser_name":"phantomjs", "tags":["walmart"], "reserved":true}' \
           -XPOST http://localhost:5000/sessions/ \
           --header "Content-Type:application/json"
    {
      "id": "05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db",
      "reserved": false,
      "hub": "localhost:4444",
      "browser_name": "phantomjs",
      "tags": ["walmart"],
      "reserved": true
    }

Unreserve a session and add a tag

.. code::

    $ curl -d '{"tags":["walmart", "logged-in"], "reserved":false}' \
           -XPUT http://localhost:5000/sessions/05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db \
           --header "Content-Type:application/json"
    {
      "id": "05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db",
      "reserved": "True",
      "hub": "localhost:4444",
      "browser_name": "phantomjs",
      "tags": ["walmart", "logged-in"]
    }

Delete a session. Note that this will de-allocate the Selenium driver.

.. code::

    $ curl -XDELETE http://localhost:5000/sessions/05e9229d-356b-46a3-beae-f8ab02cea7db
    true

python
------

Get a client

.. code:: python

    >>> import shale.client
    >>> client = shale.client
    >>> # or, use a custom client
    >>> client = shale.client.Client('http://my-shale-host:5000')

List all running webdrivers.

.. code:: python

    >>> client.running_browsers()
    ({u'browser_name': u'phantomjs',
      u'hub': u'localhost:4444',
      u'id': u'31027408-3e45-4d27-9770-ba1a26953dfc',
      u'reserved': True,
      u'tags': [u'target', u'linux']},)

Reserve a webdriver.

.. code:: python

    >>> browser = client.reserve_browser('31027408-3e45-4d27-9770-ba1a26953dfc')
    <shale.client.ClientResumableRemote at 0x1d92fd0>

... and release it.

.. code:: python

    >>> browser.release()

There's a handy context manager for reserving & releasing webdrivers.

.. code:: python

    >>> with client.browser(id) as browser:
    ...     # do yo thang
    ...     pass

Finally, if there's not a good candidate running, you can create and reserve
a new remote webdriver.

.. code:: python

    >>> browser = client.create_browser(reserve=True)
